WASHINGTON YACHT CLUB CONSTITUTION Revision: November 19, 2024 
Article I - Name 
The name of this organization shall be WASHINGTON YACHT CLUB. 
Article II - Purpose 
It shall be the purpose of the organization to promote sailing and provide facilities and instruction for Washington Yacht Club Members. 
Article III - Affiliations 
The Club is independent and not affiliated with any other organizations. 
Article IV - Membership 
Section A. Regular Members 
Persons who are regularly enrolled University of Washington undergraduate and graduate students may be Regular Members by paying the appropriate fees. 
1. Voting Rights 
Only Regular Members who are currently enrolled University of Washington students may vote at Executive Council or General Meetings. 
2. Club Membership 
The majority of the General Membership shall consist of Regular Members. 
Section B. Hazing and Discrimination 
Selection of Members shall not involve hazing of any kind, nor will selection discriminate against others based on membership of any protected class. 
Section C. Associate Members 
Persons who are not currently enrolled University of Washington students may be Associate Members by paying the appropriate fees as set in the Policies, and obtaining approval as detailed in the By-Laws. 
1. Voting Rights 
Associate Members may not vote at Executive Council or General Meetings. 
2. Restrictions 
The use of University of Washington facilities by Associate Members may be restricted by the University of Washington policies.
Section D. Eligibility Requirements 
1. Dues 
All Members shall pay dues according to the current rates set in the Policies, with the exceptions noted below 
2. Honorary Members 
Persons distinguished by their service to yachting in general of their interest in the Washington Yacht Club in particular may be elected at a General Meeting to Honorary Membership with Associate Members’ privileges. All Commodores shall be Honorary Members after serving a full term of office. Only those Honorary Members who are also Regular Members may vote at Executive Council or General Meetings 
3. Dues Exempt Members 
Members who perform service to the Club may be exempt from dues for one or more quarters, as outlined in the By-Laws. Article V - Officers 
Section A. Officers 
The Officers of the Washington Yacht Club shall be co-Commodores, Vice Commodore, Rear Commodore, Secretary, Treasurer, and Head Fleet Captain; The Commodores with the assistance of the other officers shall exercise the executive functions of the Club. The Commodores shall call and conduct all Meetings of the Club and shall act as the official representatives of the Club. Other officer positions may be held by a single individual (e.g. Vice Commodore) or by two individuals acting as co-officers (e.g. two co-Vice Commodores). 
Section B. Qualifications 
Rules of eligibility for candidacy for election to and holding of Club offices shall be established in the By-Laws and shall be consistent with University of Washington rules. Any officer of the Club who under the rules of the University of Washington of the Club becomes ineligible for such offices shall, upon determination of such fact and without further action, cease to hold such office and their office shall be filled according to Article VI - Section C of the Constitution. 
Section C. Term of Office 
The term for officers shall run from the end of the Meeting of their election to the end of the next Election Meeting. Article VI - Elections 
Section A. Selection of Officers 
1. Nomination of Officers 
Nominations of officers shall be made at a General Meeting. These nominations shall be submitted by the Executive Council and shall be seconded from the floor. Further nominations may also be submitted form the floor. 
2. Timing of elections 
Elections for one commodore, vice commodore and rear commodore shall be held during the Fall Quarter. The election of the other commodore shall be held in the Spring Quarter. 
Section B. Procedures for Voting
The Officers shall be chosen by a voice vote of the Members of the Club at the same Meeting. A simple majority (50%) of the vote shall be necessary to fill any office. 
Section C. Filling of Vacant Offices 
1. Succession of Commodore 
If the position of Commodore is vacated during the year, the Vice Commodore shall act as Commodore until a new Commodore can be elected. This election shall take place at the next Meeting at which there is a quorum. 
2. Succession of Other Officers 
Vacancies in any other office will be filled through appointment of a qualified person by the Executive Council subject to the approval of a majority of a quorum of the General Membership. 
Section D. Impeachment 
An officer may be removed from office by a 2/3 vote at a Meeting with a quorum present. At least one week (7 days) notice must be given to Members in advance of any Meeting at which impeachment will be considered. 
Article VII - General Meetings 
Section A. Frequency of Meetings 
General Meetings shall be held at least once each quarter. 
Section B. Quorum 
A quorum shall consist of the Regular Members present. 
Section C. Calling Meetings 
General Meetings may be called at any time upon one week written notice given to all Members at the discretion of the Executive Council or the Commodores. 
Section D. Procedural Matters 
Any disputes as to procedural matters shall be settled according to Robert’s Rules of Order Revised. 
Article VIII - Sponsor 
Section A. Definition 
There shall be at least one Faculty Sponsor who shall be appointed by the Executive Council. They will serve ex-officio without voting privileges. 
Section B. Duties 
The duties of the Sponsor shall be to represent the Club to the faculty and to give advice to the Executive Council when necessary.
Article IX - Amendment 
Section A. Amending the Constitution 
This Constitution may be amended by a 2/3 vote of those present at a General Meeting with a quorum, subject to the procedure outlined in Article IX - Section B of the Constitution. 
Section B. Procedure 
A proposed amendment to the Constitution must be announced at a General Meeting where discussion and revision of the amendment will take place. The revised amendment will then be posted in an appropriate manner to inform the Members at least fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the General Meeting for which the vote is scheduled. Details for this posting are described in the Policies. 
Section C. Announcement 
Procedure outlined by Article VII - Section D in the By-Laws. 
Article X - Chapters 
Section A. Washington Yacht Club Rec Club Chapter 
The Washington Yacht Club Rec Club Chapter is a chapter of the Washington Yacht Club that operates as a UW Rec Club. This Chapter is based at the Waterfront Activities Center at the University of Washington. 
The Chapter can enter into agreements with the UW Department of Recreation to be a UW Rec Club. This agreement allows the Chapter, equipment and vessels operated by the Chapter, and its members to use facilities managed by UW Recreation at the University. The Club reserves the right to terminate this Chapter through the processes of Article VIII, at which time any agreements made by this chapter will also end.
