WASHINGTON YACHT CLUB POLICIES Revision: November 19, 2024 
Article I - Definitions and Ratings 
Section A. Fleets and Classes of Boats 
In the context of Club Policies, the term Dinghy is understood to include the Bravo, Single-Handed, Double-Handed, Performance, Sailboard, and Catamaran Fleets, unless otherwise specified. 
1. Bravo Fleet 
12 foot long cat-rigged (having a single sail) catamarans. Our most beginner-friendly boats. They can be sailed by just one person, but they have room for additional crew as well. 
2. Single-Handed Fleet 
14 foot long cat-rigged, daggerboard (removable centerboard) dinghies that are sailed by one person.They may be rigged as a Laser Radial using a shorter Radial mast and smaller Radial sail. 
3. Double-Handed Fleet 
Beginner-friendly sloop-rigged (having two basic sail) dinghies designed to be sailed by two people (one skipper and one crew). Our primary Double-Handed boats are the Flying Juniors (FJ), which are 13 foot long with a centerboard, and we also have a Laser 2 (14.5 foot long with a daggerboard), RS Vision (15 foot long with a centerboard), and an International 470 (I-470) (15.5 feet long with a centerboard). 
The FJ’s, Laser 2, and RS Vision may be used for beginner instruction and Novice Ratings Tests, while the 470 may also be used for Intermediate and Skipper Ratings Tests. 
4. Performance Fleet 
High-performance sloop-rigged, centerboard dinghies. These boats require a Specialty Rating to sail and are represented by the International 505 and International 14 (I-14) boats. 
5. Sailboard Fleet 
The Sailboard Fleet is represented by many combinations of boards, booms, masts, mast extenders, sails, and universal joints that may be rigged together and sailed by one person. 
6. Catamaran Fleet 
Sloop-rigged sailboats with more than one hull. 
a. Novice Catamarans 
16 to 17 foot long catamarans suitable for beginner instruction and Novice Ratings Tests. They are represented by Hobie 16’s and a Dart. 
b. Big Cats 
Catamarans longer than 17 feet intended for more experienced catamaran sailors. They require a Specialty Rig Rating to sail. 
7. Daysailer Fleet 
Sloop-rigged sailboats from 19 to 22 feet in length that may comfortably hold four or more crew. The Flying Scot has a centerboard and can be sailed by a Double-Handed Novice. The other Daysailers have a fixed keel and require a Double-Handed Intermediate Rating to sail. 
8. Keelboat Fleet 
a. Outboard Keelboats 
Keelboats between 24 and 27 feet in length with outboard engines mounted on them. Can be sailed with a Keelboat Novice Rating. b. Inboard Keelboats
Keelboats greater than 27 feet in length with inboard engines installed inside of them. Require a Keelboat Skipper Rating and separate Rig Ratings to sail, and they may not participate in Duck Dodge. 
c. Ithaka 
Ithaka is a 44 foot long Swan 441 keelboat. It is the largest sailboat that the Club owns, and its normal usage is governed by the Ithaka Policy Document. 
9. Whaler Fleet 
Rescue powerboats maintained for the purpose of rescue and instruction. 
Section B. Ratings Requirements and Privileges 
1. Definition 
A Rating for a fleet or class of vessels allows a Member to use those vessels in the conditions and waters for which they are rated without supervision. 
2. General Requirements 
a. All Members must read and be familiar with the contents of Articles I, II, and III of the Policies in order to qualify to receive Ratings, especially the Club’s boat checkout procedures. 
b. All Members must display consideration for the safety of lives and for the protection of club equipment. 
c. A combination of Written Exams and on-the-water practical Ratings Tests are required for each Rating as described below. 
d. The requirements described here are minimum requirements. The final decision to award a Rating is at the discretion of the Chief, Instructor, or Ratings Examiner administering the Ratings Test. 
3. Bravo Rating 
a. Requirements 
i. The Bravo Written Exam must be taken and passed. 
ii. For the Ratings Test, one must rig and derig the boat, demonstrate basic sailing ability, docking, a crew overboard recovery, and perform a wet capsize in at least 3 knots of wind. 
b. Privileges 
A Bravo Rating entitles the Member to sail in winds not over 7 knots in Union Bay within sight of the WAC. 
c. Expiration 
Bravo Ratings are valid for 6 months after issue date. The Bravo Rating may be renewed by taking the Bravo Practical Test again. 
4. Dinghy Novice Ratings 
Dinghy Novice Ratings may be awarded for the Single-Handed, Double-Handed, Sailboard, and Catamaran Fleets. 
a. Requirements 
To obtain a Novice Rating, one must: 
i. Written Exam 
Pass the appropriate Novice Written Exam (Dinghy Novice or Sailboard). 
ii. Knots 
Be able to tie the following knots: Bowline, Cleating, Reef (also known as Square), and Figure Eight. 
iii. Practical Skills 
Rig and derig the testing boat for the class, demonstrate basic sailing ability, docking, a crew overboard recovery, and perform a wet capsize in at least 3 knots of wind. 
b. Privileges 
A Novice Rating entitles the Member to sail in winds not over 7 knots in Union Bay within sight of the WAC.
c. Expiration 
Novice Ratings are valid for 6 months. It is recommended that Members try their best to obtain an Intermediate or higher Rating within this time, as the purpose of the Novice Rating is to allow the Member to practice whenever they wish, so that they may continue to improve their sailing. The Novice Rating may be renewed by taking the Novice Practical Test again. 
d. Types 
i. Single-Handed Novice 
The test must be performed in a Laser and qualifies the holder to sail the Laser and Bravo. The test may be performed in a Laser Radial at the discretion of the examiner. 
ii. Double-Handed Novice 
The test may be performed in an FJ, Laser II, or Vision, and qualifies the holder to sail the FJ, Laser II, Vision, and Flying Scot. 
iii. Sailboard Novice 
The test may be performed using any Sailboard and qualifies the holder to sail all club Sailboards. 
iv. Catamaran Novice 
The test may be performed in a Hobie 16 or Dart and qualifies the holder to sail those vessels. 
5. Dinghy Intermediate Ratings 
a. Requirements 
To obtain an Intermediate Rating one must demonstrate proficiency in all requirements for a Novice Rating, but in 7 to 15 knots of wind. 
b. Privileges 
An Intermediate Rating entitles the Member to sail in winds not over 15 knots in Union Bay within sight of the WAC. 
c. Expiration 
Intermediate Ratings do not expire. 
d. Types 
i. Single-Handed Intermediate 
The test must be performed in a Laser and qualifies the holder to sail the Laser and Bravo. The test may be performed in a Laser Radial at the discretion of the examiner. 
ii. Double-Handed Intermediate 
The test may be performed in an FJ, Laser II, Vision, or 470, and this Rating qualifies the holder to sail the boats in the Double-Handed and Daysailer Fleets. This Rating also qualifies the holder to obtain the Lake Sailor Specialty Rating and the Performance Boat Specialty Rig Ratings. 
iii. Sailboard Intermediate 
The test may be performed using any Sailboard and qualifies the holder to sail all club Sailboards. 
iv. Catamaran Intermediate 
The test may be performed in a Hobie 16, Dart, or Big Cat and qualifies the holder to sail those vessels. 
v. Big Cat Specialty 
The Big Cats may be sailed by any Member who has a Catamaran Intermediate Rating and who has demonstrated to a Catamaran Chief the specialty procedures for each boat. 
vi. Lake Sailor Specialty 
The Lake Sailor Specialty Rating may be given to a Member holding a Double-Handed Intermediate Rating who has displayed additional skill and judgment in sailing Daysailers. The Lake Sailor Rating allows the Member to sail any Daysailer in winds less than 15 knots in Lake Washington, north of the Evergreen Point Floating Bridge and south of Sand Point, during daylight hours. The wind speed is to be determined at the place where the boat is being sailed. 
6. Dinghy Skipper Rating 
a. Requirements
To obtain a Skipper Rating one must: 
i. Written Examination 
Pass the Dinghy Skipper Written Examination. 
ii. Practical Skills 
Demonstrate proficiency in all requirements for a Novice and Intermediate Rating in over 15 knots of wind. Demonstrate a crew overboard recovery and a bottom-up capsize of the boat with a successful recovery. 
iii. Safety and Judgment 
Given the extra privileges of a Skipper, a higher standard of responsibility and judgment is expected than of Novices or Intermediate sailors. 
b. Privileges 
i. A Skipper Rating entitles the Member to sail in all safe wind conditions, subject to the restrictions of the By-Laws and Policies. ii. Single-Handed, Double-Handed and Catamaran Skippers may sail in all interconnecting waters east of the Aurora Bridge. iii. Sailboard Skippers may sail in Union Bay and in Lake Washington, north of the Evergreen Point Floating Bridge and south of Sand Point. 
c. Expiration 
Skipper Ratings do not expire. 
d. Types 
i. Single-Handed Skipper 
The test must be performed in a Laser, and this Rating qualifies the holder to sail the Laser and Bravo. The test may be performed in a Laser Radial at the discretion of the examiner. 
ii. Double-Handed Skipper 
The test may be performed in any Double-Handed Dinghy, and this Rating qualifies the holder to sail any boats in the Double-Handed or Daysailer Fleets. This also qualifies the holder to earn Performance Boat Specialty Rig Ratings. 
iii. Sailboard Skipper 
The test may be performed using any Sailboard and qualifies the holder to sail all club Sailboards. 
iv. Catamaran Skipper 
The test may be performed in a Hobie 16, Dart, or Big Cat and qualifies the holder to sail those vessels. 
v. Performance Boat Specialty Rig Ratings 
The Performance Boats may be sailed by any Member who has a Double-Handed Skipper Rating and demonstrates to a Chief the rigging procedure for that specific boat. 
7. Keelboat Novice Rating 
a. Requirements 
To obtain a Keelboat Novice Rating one must: 
i. Knots 
Be able to tie a Bowline, Cleat Knot, Figure Eight, Clove Hitch, Reef Knot, and Double Overhand, and be able to properly coil lines for storage. 
ii. Practical Skills 
Demonstrate sailing proficiency equivalent to an Intermediate Dinghy Rating. Members must also show the ability to dock our Keelboats safely and the ability to recover a crew overboard. 
b. Privileges 
A Keelboat Novice Rating entitles the Member to sail a Keelboat in all winds in Lake Washington and all interconnected waters east of the Aurora Bridge during the hours covered by a reservation, subject to the restrictions in this Policies document. Passage under the I-90 Floating Bridge between the West shore of Mercer Island and the East shore of Seattle is prohibited. 
8. Keelboat Skipper Rating
a. Requirements 
To obtain a Keelboat Skipper Rating one must: 
i. Written Examination 
Pass the Dinghy Novice and Skipper Written Exams, and pass the Keelboat Skipper Written Exam as administered by a Keelboat Chief only. 
ii. Practical Skills 
Demonstrate proficiency in all aspects of Keelboat sailing in tidal water including: basic navigation, anchoring, reefing, and changing sails. Expert understanding of the International Rules of the Road and proper crew overboard recovery technique must be shown. 
iii. Equipment Proficiency 
Demonstrate the proper use of secondary equipment, such as head, engine, stove, seacocks, and compass. 
b. Privileges 
A Keelboat Skipper is entitled to sail a Keelboat in all winds and in all waters for which the club carries insurance during the hours covered by a reservation, subject to the restrictions in this Policies document. 
c. Inboard Keelboat Specialty Rig Ratings 
A Keelboat Skipper may obtain separate Specialty Ratings allowing for the use of the Cal 3-30 or San Juan 30 sailboats. This Rating may be awarded by a Keelboat Chief and requires proficiency in sailing the larger boats, as well as use of the inboard engine and other equipment specific to the boat for which the Rating is given. 
d. Ithaka Skipper 
A Keelboat Skipper is eligible to be elected as an Ithaka Skipper by a two-thirds majority vote at a General Meeting following nomination by an existing Ithaka Skipper. This designation allows the Ithaka Skipper to skipper the Swan 441 when approved by a vote at a General Meeting, and is subject to any other restrictions on the use of the Swan 441 imposed by the Officers or by a majority vote of Members at an Executive Council Meeting or General Meeting. 
9. Whaler Rating 
a. Requirements 
To obtain a Whaler Rating, one must: 
i. Practical Skills 
Demonstrate basic knowledge of docking, Whaler systems, and maneuvering. Basic maneuvering skills must be demonstrated in addition to maneuvering specific to performing sailing instruction, as defined by the Vice Commodore. 
ii. Radio Skills 
Demonstrate proper operation of a marine VHF radio. 
iii. State Law Compliance 
Meet the requirements to operate a motor-powered vessel within the State of Washington (e.g., possessing a Boater Education Card). 
Article II - Use of Boats, Facilities, and Equipment Section A. Sailing Requirements and Restrictions 
1. Sailing Areas 
Boats may be sailed by Members in the waters specified by their Rating for the type of boat being sailed. 
a. Additional Waters 
With the approval of the Membership at a General Meeting, club boats may be sailed on other waters during organized club activities and as otherwise specified. 
b. Races and Regattas
The Executive Council may approve the use of club boats to be sailed in US Sailing sanctioned sailing regattas within an area covered by the Club’s insurance policy, or in series racing organized by local sailing organizations. 
2. Sailing Hours 
Boats, except those designated as part of the Keelboat Fleet, the Pearson Ensign, and the J/22, may only be sailed during daylight hours and must be in sight of the WAC by sunset. 
a. Exception for the Pearson Ensign and J/22 
A Member with a Double-Handed Intermediate Rating may sail the Pearson Ensign or J/22 after sunset if: 
i. That Member also holds a Keelboat Rating. 
ii. The navigation lights are in good working order and a battery is connected to the electrical system. 
iii. Wind and geographical restrictions are dictated by the Member’s Double-Handed Rating. 
3. Docking Hours 
All boats, except Keelboats and Daysailers with appropriate lighting must be docked by dark. The only exception shall be when a best effort to comply with this requirement is thwarted by insufficient wind. In this situation, the Member must inform the Officers or a Chief about their delay as soon as possible. 
4. Sailboard Clothing 
From September 15th to June 15th, Members using the Sailboards are required to wear wetsuits. 
5. Hazardous Weather 
Hazardous weather conditions shall be deemed to exist if any of the following criteria are met: steady winds of 25 knots or higher (large branches of grown trees in motion); or puffy, shifty winds of 20 knots or higher (rapidly changing wind direction and intensity as seen in trees and in the rapidly shifting pattern of dark streaks across the water); or, the display of the Hazardous Weather sign as posted by a Chief or an Officer at their discretion. This may include occasions when wind velocities or other conditions are not yet hazardous but are so predicted. In hazardous weather conditions, whether the sign has been posted or not, the following procedures must be adhered to: 
a. Bridge Hazard 
No boat shall be sailed near the Evergreen Point Bridge on the windward side of it. 
b. Personal Floating Device Use 
Adequate flotation must be worn by all persons in Club boats. 
c. Water Limitations 
No boat shall be sailed East of Webster Point or West of the WAC unless a Rescue Whaler is being operated in support of such boats. 
d. Clothing 
From November 1st to May 1st, if hazardous conditions exist and a Rescue Whaler is not being operated in support of such boats, all sailors must wear wetsuits. 
e. Ratings Restrictions 
No Novice or Intermediate sailing. 
6. Exception for Keelboats 
The above sections of Article II regarding Sailing Hours, Docking Hours, and Hazardous Weather do not apply to the use of Keelboats. However, the Executive Council or Officers may determine conditions or expected conditions in which Keelboats may not be used. 
7. Restrictions During Football Games 
Except in case of an emergency or with special permission from a Co-Commodore, no WYC activities or use of Club resources may take place at the WAC on home football game Husky Harbor days from the time that the boats are moved prior to the game until the official end of Husky Harbor (one hour after the end of the football game).
Section B. Requirements for the Use of Boats, Facilities, and Equipment 
1. Member and Guest Requirements 
a. All Members and Guests accessing Club boats and facilities at the waterfront must be either fully-enrolled UW Seattle students or IMA members. 
b. During Waterfront Activities Center (WAC) operating hours, Members and Guests must check in at the WAC office by presenting their Husky Card or IMA membership card. 
c. To access Club boats and facilities at the waterfront outside of WAC operating hours, Guests must email 
guests@washingtonyachtclub.org each quarter with proof of full-time student status or IMA membership, and the Member bringing out the Guest must also be a recipient of this email. This will be used to verify that the waterfront is not being used for club activity by individuals without IMA membership. 
d. All Guests, both at the waterfront and at other locations, must sign the online WYC Participant’s Agreement (available at https://waiver.washingtonyachtclub.org/) before sailing, and the Member bringing them out must verify that they have properly completed the waiver. 
e. All Guests must abide by the Club rules and may not be under 18 years of age. 
f. Failure to follow the above requirements may result in the Member losing their privilege to bring Guests, and both the Member and Guest being prohibited from using any and all WYC facilities and equipment for a period of time to be determined by the Executive Council. An appeal may be made according to Article IV - Section B.6 in the Policies. 
g. Club members must not knowingly allow prohibited Guests from accessing Club boats or facilities. 
2. Facilities Access 
Only Members with Ratings or Position Holders may open the Sail Locker, Shell House, and Gas Locker and only for usage in Club activity. When Members are not inside, these spaces must be locked at all times unless a Member in the immediate area knows that the door is unlocked and there is a defined plan for who will be locking the door and when. Any Member failing to abide by the above requirements may have their privilege to access these facilities revoked. 
3. Monetary Gain 
WYC and WAC facilities and equipment shall not be used for any type of personal monetary gain. 
4. Responsibilities for Boat Usage 
It is the responsibility of the Member checking out a boat to ensure that the boat is correctly rigged and derigged, the boat is properly secured in its designated place, the sails are correctly put away, and all other equipment on board is stored back in its proper place. 
5. Boat Checkout Requirements 
Boats may only be sailed if the following requirements are met: 
a. Checkout Sheet Requirement 
The online Checkout Form must be completed, and every Guest must sign the online Participant’s Agreement (available at https://waiver.washingtonyachtclub.org/). 
b. Ratings Requirement 
The appropriate Novice, Intermediate, or Skipper Rating is required, except with the express permission of a Chief, Ratings Examiner, or Instructor. 
c. Equipment Requirement 
All proper equipment for the particular boat must be on board. 
6. Checkout Permissions by Chiefs and Ratings Examiners 
A Chief or Ratings Examiner may, at their discretion, give permission for a non-rated Member (or a Novice or Intermediate-rated Member when high wind conditions exist) to practice sailing for the purpose of becoming a Novice, Intermediate, or Skipper, provided the following: 
a. Permission 
Permission must be granted each time the Member wants to sail.
b. Checkout Form 
The Member checking out the boat must indicate on the online Checkout Form which Chief, Ratings Examiner, or Instructor is giving permission. 
c. Time Restriction 
A Chief or Ratings Examiner may apply any reasonable time restriction to the sailing of each vessel. 
d. Water Limitations 
Non-rated, Novice, and Intermediate-rated Members receiving checkout permission may sail only in Union Bay within sight of the WAC. Specific permission to sail in waters outside Union Bay may be given to Novice or Intermediate Members only by a Chief or Ratings Examiner, who must be operating a Rescue Whaler in support of the vessel. 
e. Catamarans and Sailboards Checkouts 
Permission to sail in Catamarans or sailboards may be given by any Chief or Ratings Examiner at their discretion. 
f. Confirmation of Basic Sailing Ability 
A Chief or Ratings Examiner giving permission to practice must watch the Member’s sailing performance until the Member demonstrates the basic ability to sail the boat safely. For Sailboards, the Chief or Ratings Examiner may alternatively tether the board until the Member demonstrates the basic ability to sail the board safely. 
7. Classes 
Novice and Intermediate classes are taught only by Instructors. These classes are intended to assist the inexperienced sailor in learning the basic techniques of rigging, derigging, sailing, self-rescue, and docking of Club boats, with primary emphasis on instilling respect for club equipment and instilling in Members safe sailing behaviors. 
a. Times 
Classes are taught at scheduled times as determined by the Instructor(s) and the Vice Commodore. 
b. Instructor Checkout Permissions 
Class Members without appropriate Ratings shall, in addition to fulfilling the checkout requirements of Members having Ratings, obtain permission from the Instructor at each class session. 
c. Boat Reservations 
Instructors may reserve those boats needed for scheduled classes, subject to the restrictions of the Vice Commodore and/or Executive Council. 
8. Defective Equipment 
No boat shall be sailed in known defective condition in regards to hull, rigging, spars, or sails without the express permission of the Fleet Captain of that fleet. 
9. Smoking 
There will be no smoking in the vicinity of the WAC except in designated smoking areas. Smoking is not permitted in the cabin of any Club boat. 
10. Flammable Liquids 
Flammable liquids must be stored in the Gas Locker. 
Section C. Boat Equipment Requirements 
In order to be sailed, each boat shall be equipped with one Coast Guard-approved life jacket for each person on board or expected to be on board at any point in the outing. One Coast Guard-approved buoyant throwable must be on board any boat over 16 feet in length, and any additional Coast Guard equipment requirements must be met.
Section D. Personal Safety 
1. Swimming Ability 
It is expected that all Members of the Club will have sufficient swimming ability to take care of themselves in an emergency. Members must vouch for their own abilities and sail at their own risk if this ability is insufficient. 
2. Guests 
Members who check out a boat are responsible for the safety of their Guests and have full authority over their vessel. All Guests must fill out the online Participant’s Agreement (available at https://waiver.washingtonyachtclub.org/) prior to boarding. Guests must wear proper flotation at all times while sailing aboard Dinghies. Guests who can not swim must wear flotation at all times while on board all Club boats. 
3. Club Regulations 
The Member who checked out the boat is required to obey and enforce the safety regulations of the Club, especially those rules related to having and wearing life preservers. Non-swimmers must wear Coast Guard-approved life preservers at all times while on board Club boats. 
4. Use of Personal Flotation Devices 
Members without Ratings, members who cannot swim, and all Guests must wear proper flotation at all times while sailing aboard Dinghies. 
5. Sailboards 
All sailors of Sailboards must wear proper flotation at all times. 
Section E. Damage to Club Boats 
1. Responsibilities 
All Members are responsible, and equally so, for any damage or loss of equipment while the boat is checked out to them. The Executive Council may charge a reasonable amount for such loss to account for replacement and repair of equipment or vessels. Such a charge shall not exceed the value of the damage or loss and shall be proportional to the extent to which the Member was at fault for the damage. 
2. Damage Repair Form 
Anyone damaging or finding a damaged boat shall fill out a Repair Form for that boat. If the damage is such that the boat is not in sailable condition, the Fleet Captain of that fleet or the Head Fleet Captain must be notified. 
3. Boat Repair 
In case of damage to Club Boats, the Member shall make arrangements with the Fleet Captain of that fleet to learn to perform the necessary repairs, or repair such damage themselves. 
Section F. Use of Rescue Whalers 
1. Personnel 
The Rescue Whalers shall only be used by Members with Whaler Ratings for defined Club purposes such as classes, Ratings Exams, boat moves, and Whaler training and practice. The only exception to this rule is that in the case of an emergency endangering life or property, any Member may use the Whalers to attempt a rescue if no Whaler-rated Member is available in the immediate vicinity and the Member feels confident in their ability to safely operate the boat. Usage of the Whalers for any other purpose requires the express permission of a Chief or the Executive Council. 
2. Required Equipment 
The following equipment shall be on board the Whalers when in use: 
a. Gasoline 
Two or more gallons of gasoline. 
b. Personal Flotation Devices
A minimum of four Coast Guard-approved life preservers. 
c. Paddle 
One or more paddles. 
Section G. Outboard Motor Usage on Keelboats 
Usage of the outboard motors affixed to Keelboats is limited to qualified Keelboat Novices and Skippers, except with the permission of a Chief or the Executive Council. 
Section H. Outboard Motor Usage on Daysailers 
Usage of outboard motors affixed to a Daysailer is limited to qualified Keelboat Novices and Skippers, except with the permission of a Chief or the Executive Council. A reservation fee equivalent to 50% of the corresponding Keelboat Reservation Fee described in Article III, Section B of this Policies document must be submitted to the club. 
Section I. Other Usage of Outboard Motors 
Outboard motors may only be used for purposes other than those outlined above with the permission of a Chief or the Executive Council. 
Article III - Membership Dues, Fees, and Volunteer Recognition 
Section A. Dues Periods 
1. Amounts 


Initiation Fee 
Quarterly Dues 
Annual Dues
Student 
$0 
$39 
$100
Associate 
$0 
$80 
$225



Full-time UW Seattle student status or IMA membership is required to be a Member. Membership will not be recognized if these requirements are not met. 
a. Force Majeure 
In the event of being unable to access the boats, facilities, and equipment for an extended period of time, quarterly membership dues will be reduced to $0. At such time as access becomes available again, membership dues shall return to the amounts listed above and must be paid before usage as described in Article II of the Policies. However, any duration of time in which Members were unable to make use of their Membership will be added on to their updated Membership duration. 
2. Duration 
Membership dues shall be paid either quarterly or annually. The rates established for the payment of dues may not be prorated. An annual membership covers four consecutive quarters. 
a. Policy for Graduating Students 
Annual student memberships do not carry over if the student status of a Member changes during the time period covered by the annual membership. For each of the quarters affected, the Member will receive a refund equal to single-quarter membership dues for quarterly membership, or one-fourth of the annual membership dues paid. 
3. Effective Dates 
Dues are effective from the date that instruction begins for the quarter(s) covered by the membership, as provided in the University of Washington Academic Calendar. Dues are effective until the day before instruction begins for the quarter immediately following the last quarter to which they are applicable. 
4. Dues Exempt Refund
Members who qualify for a dues exemption may request a refund for the quarter affected or have that amount applied to their future membership after fulfilling the duties of their role. 
Section B. Keelboat Reservation Fees 
Unless the Keelboat Fleet Captain has otherwise set other restrictions and/or policies governing the reservation and check out of the keelboats, the Reservation Fees outlined below are required in order to take out a Club Keelboat, or a Daysailer with usage of an attached Outboard. 




Regular Members 


Associate Members


Weekdays
Weekends 
& Holidays 
Weekdays
Weekends 
& Holidays
Full Day Outboard 
$22 
$30 
$35 
$45
Half Day Outboard 
$16 
$20 
$25 
$30
Full Day Inboard 
$25 
$33 
$40 
$50
Half Day Inboard 
$19 
$23 
$30 
$35
Full Day Daysailor with Outboard 
$11 
$15 
$18 
$23
Half Day Daysailor with Outboard 
$8 
$10 
$13 
$15



1. Full day reservations begin at 3 am on the day reserved and end at 3 am on the day after. Half day reservations are either from 3 am to 3 pm or from 3 pm to 3 am. 
2. Keelboat reservation fees are due in full when a reservation is placed. 
3. Policies and procedures for the placement of reservations without payment of fees for classes, maintenance and repair periods, and club events (e.g., Keelboat Clinic or Snooze ‘n’ Cruise) may be made by the Keelboat Fleet Captain or Vice Commodore. 
Section C. Volunteer Recognition 
1. Volunteer Recognition Positions 
The Secretary and Ratings Examiners may be paid by a fixed ammount as a quarterly stipend. 
a. Secretary 
The quarterly stipend shall be set by the Executive Council. 
b. Ratings Examiners 
The quarterly stipend shall not be greater than total of all fees required for membership by the club and the UW Recreation Department. 
Article IV - Membership Management and Suspensions 
This Article provides details for the management of Members. Categories of Members and requirements for membership are defined in the Constitution. 
Section A. Management of Associate Members 
1. Application Process 
If any person wishing to join the club is not a current UW Seattle student, they must apply to the Secretary. They may be admitted according to the order in which they joined the list, their affiliation with the university, their potential service to the club, or other criteria as established by the Co-Commodores and Secretary. 
2. Revocation of Membership 
In cases where managing new membership applications is not sufficient to maintain the required 50% student ratio, the Co-Commodores or Secretary may halt the membership of any Associate Member for an indefinite period of time. The affected Associate Members will receive a
full refund of membership dues paid for the quarter(s) affected and will be granted top priority for reinstatement once the student ratio allows, without having to pay any Initiation Fee. 
Section B. Membership Suspensions 
Any violation of the By-Laws or Policies of the Washington Yacht Club, University regulations, or governing laws are grounds for suspension of membership. Memberships should not be suspended without such justification. Suspensions last for two weeks unless otherwise determined, including for an indefinite period of time. 
1. Loss of Privileges 
A Suspended Member is a Member not in good standing who does not have voting privileges and is also prohibited from using any and all WYC facilities and equipment, as a Guest or otherwise. Refunds are not given for membership dues previously paid by a Suspended Member, unless otherwise approved by the Executive Council. 
2. Authority 
a. Officers 
A majority of the Officers may suspend any Member for a period of up to two weeks. 
b. Executive Council 
A majority vote from the Executive Council may also be used to suspend any Member for a period of up to two weeks. 
By a two-thirds majority vote, the Executive Council may suspend any Member for a specified period beyond two weeks, including indefinitely, or revoke the status of a Chief. This shall be for deliberate and/or repeated disregard of the By-Laws or Policies. 
3. Obligatory Suspensions 
Obligatory suspensions will be enforced for improper use of boats and facilities, violation of Hazardous Weather rules, or violation of the University of Washington Student Code of Conduct. 
4. Suspension Procedures 
Upon suspension of a Member, the Club shall: 
a. Inform the Member and the Executive Council of the suspension, describing the section(s) of the By-Laws, Policies, University regulations, or governing laws violated. 
b. Inform the Member of any intention for the Executive Council to consider extending the duration of the penalty. c. Notify the Member of their right to appeal to the Executive Council. 
5. Appeal Suspensions 
Any suspension may be appealed to the Executive Council. The suspension will be made void upon a two-thirds majority vote in favor of the appeal. 
6. Indefinite Suspension of Membership 
A Member who has repeatedly violated the By-Laws or Policies, or by their actions has shown a repeated disregard for the safety of Club Members or equipment, or by their actions creates an overtly negative or hostile environment for Members or threatens the continued operation of the Club, may be suspended indefinitely by a two-thirds majority vote of the Executive Council. 
Section C. Removal of Ratings 
1. Unqualified Ratings 
Any Rating may be removed for any violation of the By-Laws or Policies or when, in the judgment of a Chief, the Member in question should not have qualified for that Rating, whether due to a lack of appropriate sailing abilities, knowledge of club policies, or the judgment expected of Rated Members. 
2. Procedures 
A Chief, upon removal of a Rating, shall:
a. Inform the Member and the Executive Council of the removal of that Rating, describing the reason for removal of the Rating and citing any section(s) of the By-Laws, Policies, University regulations, or governing laws violated. 
b. Remove the Rating from the Club’s online database. 
c. Notify the Member of their right to appeal to the Executive Council. 
3. Appealing Ratings Removal 
A removal of a Rating may be appealed to the Executive Council. The removal will be made void upon a two-thirds vote by the Executive Council. 
Article V - Posting of Announcements 
Any Club action which requires formal notification will be announced on the wyc_info@u.washington.edu email list as specified by the relevant section of the Constitution, By-Laws, or Policies. 
Article VI - Meeting Forecasts 
Dates for a minimum of one Executive Council Meeting and one General Meeting, to occur during the upcoming quarter, shall be decided by the final Meeting of each quarter.
